---
slug: weekly digest 01
title: Weekly Digest 01
authors: [adipta]
tags: [weekly-digest, data-science]
---

Welcome to the first edition of our Weekly Digest !, where we dive into the latest and most exciting developments in the world of technology, with a special focus on data science. In this inaugural post, we'll cover groundbreaking advancements, emerging trends, and insightful analyses to keep you updated and informed. Whether you're a seasoned data scientist or just passionate about technology, there's something here for everyone. Let's get started!

- **Meta launch Llama 3.1 450B** - Llama 3.1 405B stands as the first openly accessible model that rivals the top AI systems in general knowledge, steerability, math, tool use, and multilingual translation. [Read Here](https://ai.meta.com/blog/meta-llama-3-1/)
- **Google Release Gemma 2 2B** - This compact model delivers impressive results by learning from larger models through distillation. Remarkably, Gemma 2 2B outperforms all GPT-3.5 models on the Chatbot Arena, showcasing its outstanding conversational AI capabilities. [Read Here](https://developers.googleblog.com/en/smaller-safer-more-transparent-advancing-responsible-ai-with-gemma/)
- **Openai Release Advance Voice Mode** - OpenAI’s new advanced voice mode for ChatGPT is beginning to roll out to a select group of ChatGPT Plus subscribers. During OpenAI’s event in may, the new voice mode demonstrated significant improvements over ChatGPT’s existing voice mode. Onstage, OpenAI employees interrupted the chatbot and asked it to tell a story in various ways, and the chatbot adeptly adjusted its responses to accommodate their interruptions. [Read Here](https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/30/24209650/openai-chatgpt-advanced-voice-mode)
- **SearchGPT, Openai New AI Search Engine** - We are piloting SearchGPT, a prototype of new search features that merges the power of our AI models with web information to provide quick, timely answers with clear and relevant sources. This initial launch is limited to a small group of users and publishers to gather feedback. [Read Here](https://openai.com/index/searchgpt-prototype/)
- **SAM 2: The Next Gen of Meta Segment Anything Model for videos and images** - SAM 2, is the first unified model for real-time, promptable object segmentation in both images and videos, significantly enhancing the video segmentation experience and enabling seamless application across both formats. SAM 2 surpasses previous models in image segmentation accuracy and outperforms existing video segmentation methods, while requiring only one-third of the interaction time. [Read Here](https://ai.meta.com/blog/segment-anything-2/)
- **Canva Acquired Leonardo AI** - Generative AI company Leonardo.Ai is acquired by Canva, as the company mission to create the world’s leading design AI technology. With Leonardo.Ai’s remarkable foundational model and a team of 120 top-tier researchers, engineers, and designers, this acquisition enhances canva capacity to accelerate the development of canva expanding suite of AI products. Canva group are also committed to ongoing research and innovation to advance the future of visual AI. [Read Here](https://www.canva.com/newsroom/news/leonardo-ai/)
- **Langchain Introduces LangGraph Studio** - LangGraph Studio offers tools to visualize and interact with agent graphs, simplifying the development of agentic applications. While traditional coding remains crucial, LangGraph Studio provides a visual interface to complement code editors, making it easier to understand and iterate on complex custom logic in graphs. [Read Here](https://blog.langchain.dev/langgraph-studio-the-first-agent-ide/)
- **Answer AI release Fast HTML** - FastHTML is a next-generation web framework designed for creating fast, scalable web applications with minimal, compact code.
FastHTML applications are written in Python, leveraging the full power of the Python language and ecosystem. It aligns directly with HTML and HTTP while enabling encapsulation through sound software engineering practices. [Read Here](https://github.com/AnswerDotAI/fasthtml?tab=readme-ov-file)
- **Hugging Face Inference-as-a-Service powered by NVIDIA NIM** - Hugging Face has launched Inference-as-a-Service powered by NVIDIA NIM, enabling Enterprise Hub users to utilize open models with NVIDIA's DGX Cloud platform for efficient, serverless AI inference. This service simplifies access to advanced AI models like Llama and Mistral, offering a pay-as-you-go pricing model to make it cost-effective. [Read Here](https://huggingface.co/blog/inference-dgx-cloud)

As we wrap up this first edition of Weekly Digest, we hope you found the latest updates in technology and data science both insightful and inspiring. Stay tuned for next week’s digest as we continue to explore the most significant advancements and trends shaping the future of tech. Until then, keep innovating and stay curious!